Tweak advice about managing resources for containers (#29227)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers.md

---
title: Resource Management for Pods and Containers
content_type: concept
weight: 40
feature:
  title: Automatic bin packing
  description: >

>     Automatically places containers based on their resource requirements and other constraints, while not sacrificing availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Automatically places containers based on their resource requirements and other constraints without sacrificing availability.
```

Author: I hope that's a nit - the phrasing was also wrong in the original.

Author: As this is a change to the front page (https://kubernetes.io/) I'd prefer to save wording tweaks here to happen in a separate PR.

>     Mix critical and best-effort workloads in order to drive up utilization and save even more resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Mixes critical and best-effort workloads to increase utilization and save even more resources.
```

Not sure if "increase" makes sense here, or if "improve" works better.

Author: I can't think of a better replacement for “increase” in that proposed phrasing.

Author: As this is a change to the front page (https://kubernetes.io/) I'd prefer to save wording tweaks here to happen in a separate PR.

[Services](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) are objects that can be read and modified
through the Kubernetes API server.

> ## Resource requests and limits of Pod and container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resource requests and limits of Pods and containers
```

Author: If we change the wording we break existing hyperlinks (or we can explicitly set a custom fragment identifier)

Reviewer: I think set the anchor manually and change the wording of the heading for grammatical reasons, but it's a nit

* `spec.containers[].resources.requests.memory`
* `spec.containers[].resources.requests.hugepages-<size>`

Although you can only specify requests and limits for individual containers,
it is also useful to think about the overall resource requests and limits for
a Pod.
For a particular resource, a *Pod resource request/limit* is the sum of the
resource requests/limits of that type for each container in the Pod.

## Resource units in Kubernetes

### CPU resource units {#meaning-of-cpu}

Limits and requests for CPU resources are measured in *cpu* units.
In Kubernetes, 1 CPU unit is equivalent to **1 physical CPU core**,
or **1 virtual core**, depending on whether the node is a physical host
or a virtual machine running inside a physical machine.

Fractional requests are allowed. A container with
`spec.containers[].resources.requests.cpu` of `0.5` is guaranteed half as much

> CPU as one that asks for `1` cpu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU as one that asks for `1` CPU.
```

The [quantity](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/) expression
`0.1` is equivalent to the expression `100m`.

> When you use that to specify CPU resources, you can think of that as "one hundred milliCPU";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use `0.1` to specify CPU resources, you can think of it as "one hundred milliCPU", or "one hundred millicores".
```

> Some people say "one hundred millicores", which means the same thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

If you specify a resource request or limit with a decimal point, for example `0.1`,

> the Kubernetes API canonifies this to a milliCPU value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Kubernetes API resolves this to a milliCPU value.
```
Not sure how well canonifies would work for localization

Author: ```suggestion
the Kubernetes API resolves this to a milliCPU value, and stores the result.
```

> CPU resource is always specified as an absolute quantity, never as a relative quantity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU resource is always specified as an absolute quantity, never as a relative quantity. For example,
```

`500m` CPU represents the roughly same amount of computing power whether that container
runs on a single-core, dual-core, or 48-core machine.

{{< note >}}

> Kubernetes doesn't allow you to specify CPU resources with a precicion finer tham

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes doesn't allow you to specify CPU resources with a precision finer than
```

> `1m`. Because of this, it's useful to specify CPU units less than `1.0` or `1000m` using
> the milliCPU form; for example, `5m` rather than `0.005`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`1m`. Because of this, it's useful to specify CPU units less than `1.0` (or `1000m` using
the milliCPU form); for example, `5m` rather than `0.005`.
```

This is a little unclear to me. Does this sentence mean that instead of specifying `0.005` for a CPU resource request, we should use `5m`, and they both mean the same amount?

Author: If you wrote `0.005` then a subsequent person might change that to `0.00025` (which is `0m`), whereas writing `5m`, that misguided change is less likely.

Author: (happy to consider another wording here; would prefer to get these tweaks merged)

{{< /note >}}

### Memory resource units {#meaning-of-memory}

Limits and requests for `memory` are measured in bytes. You can express memory as
a plain integer or as a fixed-point number using one of these
[quantity](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/) suffixes:
E, P, T, G, M, k. You can also use the power-of-two equivalents: Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi,
Mi, Ki. For example, the following represent roughly the same value:

```shell
128974848, 129e6, 129M, 123Mi
```

## Container resources example {#example-1}

> The following Pod has two containers. Both containers are defines with a request for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Pod has two containers. Both containers are defined with a request for
```

0.25 CPU
and 64MiB (2<sup>26</sup> bytes) of memory. Each container has a limit of 0.5

> CPI and 128MiB of memory. You can say the Pod has a request of 0.5 CPU and 128

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU and 128MiB of memory. You can say the Pod has a request of 0.5 CPU and 128
```

CPU resource is always specified as an absolute amount of resource, never as a relative amount. For example,
`500m` CPU represents the roughly same amount of computing power whether that container
runs on a single-core, dual-core, or 48-core machine.

{{< note >}}
Kubernetes doesn't allow you to specify CPU resources with a precision finer than
`1m`. Because of this, it's useful to specify CPU units less than `1.0` or `1000m` using
the milliCPU form; for example, `5m` rather than `0.005`.
{{< /note >}}

### Memory resource units {#meaning-of-memory}

Limits and requests for `memory` are measured in bytes. You can express memory as
a plain integer or as a fixed-point number using one of these
[quantity](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/) suffixes:
E, P, T, G, M, k. You can also use the power-of-two equivalents: Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi,
Mi, Ki. For example, the following represent roughly the same value:

```shell
128974848, 129e6, 129M,  128974848000m, 123Mi
```

Take care about case for suffixes. If you request `400m` of memory, this is a request
for 0.4 bytes. Someone who types that probably meant to ask for 400 mebibytes (`400Mi`)
or 400 megabytes (`400M`).

> ## Container resources example {#example-1}

Reviewer 2: nit: Is there more than one container resource example?

or CPU resource usage on nodes is very low, the scheduler still refuses to place
a Pod on a node if the capacity check fails. This protects against a resource
shortage on a node when resource usage later increases, for example, during a
daily peak in request rate.

## How Kubernetes applies resource requests and limits {#how-pods-with-resource-limits-are-run}

When the kubelet starts a container as part of a Pod, the kubelet passes that container's
requests and limits for memory and CPU to the container runtime.

On Linux, the container runtime typically configures
kernel {{< glossary_tooltip text="cgroups" term_id="cgroup" >}} that apply and enforce the
limits you defined.

- The CPU limit defines a hard ceiling on how much CPU time that the container can use.
  During each scheduling interval (time slice), the Linux kernel checks to see if this
  limit is exceeded; if so, the kernel waits before allowing that cgroup to resume execution.
- The CPU request typically defines a weighting. If several different containers (cgroups)
  want to run on a contended system, workloads with larger CPU requests are allocated more
  CPU time than workloads with small requests.

> - The memory request is mainly used during (Kubernetes) Pod scheduling. On node that uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The memory request is mainly used during (Kubernetes) Pod scheduling. On a node that uses
```

  cgroups v2, the container runtime might use the memory request as a hint to set
  `memory.min` and `memory.low`.
- The memory limit defines a memory limit for that cgroup. If the container tries to
  allocate more memory than this limit, the Linux kernel out-of-memory subsystem activates
  and, typically, intervenes by stopping one of the processes in the container that tried

>   to allocate memory. If that process is the container's PID 1, and the container is marked

Reviewer: What's PID 1? The container's first process?

Author: PID 1 is the primary process for a POSIX system. There is a strong convention that if PID 1 (from the container's point of view) fails or shuts down, then the container runtime should terminate the container.

Maybe that could be a glossary entry? (separate PR)

Reviewer: +1 for glossary entry :) I had to google it

  as restartable, Kubernetes restarts the container.
- The memory limit for the Pod or container can also apply to pages in memory backed
  volumes, such as an `emptyDir`. The kubelet tracks `tmpfs` emptyDir volumes as container
  memory use, rather than as local ephemeral storage.

If a container exceeds its memory request and the node that it runs on becomes short of
memory overall, it is likely that the Pod the container belongs to will be
{{< glossary_tooltip text="evicted" term_id="eviction" >}}.

A container might or might not be allowed to exceed its CPU limit for extended periods of time.

> However, container runtimes don't terminate Pods or containers excessive CPU usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, container runtimes don't terminate Pods or containers for excessive CPU usage.
```

for how to advertise device plugin managed resources on each node.

##### Other resources

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: I don't see why this page should include level 5 headings.

## PID limiting

Process ID (PID) limits allow for the configuration of a kubelet
to limit the number of PIDs that a given Pod can consume. See

> [Pid Limiting](/docs/concepts/policy/pid-limiting/) for information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PID Limiting](/docs/concepts/policy/pid-limiting/) for information.
```

or more than 6.23Gi of memory, that Pod will not fit on the node.

By looking at the “Pods” section, you can see which Pods are taking up space on
the node.

The amount of resources available to Pods is less than the node capacity, because
system daemons use a portion of the available resources. Within the Kubernetes API,
each Node has a `.status.allocatable` field
(see [NodeStatus](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/node-v1/#NodeStatus)
for details).

The `.status.allocatable` field describes the amount of resources that are available
to Pods on that node (for example: 15 virtual CPUs and 7538 MiB of memory).
For more information on node allocatable resources in Kubernetes, see
[Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/).

You can configure [resource quotas](/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/)
to limit the total amount of resources that a namespace can consume.
Kubernetes enforces quotas for objects in particular namespace when there is a
ResourceQuota in that namespace.
For example, if you assign specific namespaces to different teams, you

> can set resource quotas on those namespaces to prevent one team from
> hogging all the resources in your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
can add ResourceQuotas into those namespaces. Setting resource quotas helps to
prevent one team from using so much of any resource that this over-use affects other teams.

You should also consider what access you grant to that namespace:
**full** write access to a namespace allows someone with that access to remove any
resource, include a configured ResourceQuota.
```

By looking at the “Pods” section, you can see which Pods are taking up space on
the node.

The amount of resources available to Pods is less than the node capacity, because
system daemons use a portion of the available resources. Within the Kubernetes API,
each Node has a `.status.allocatable` field
(see [NodeStatus](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/node-v1/#NodeStatus)
for details).

The `.status.allocatable` field describes the amount of resources that are available
to Pods on that node (for example: 15 virtual CPUs and 7538 MiB of memory).
For more information on node allocatable resources in Kubernetes, see
[Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/).

You can configure [resource quotas](/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/)
to limit the total amount of resources that a namespace can consume.
Kubernetes enforces quotas for objects in particular namespace when there is a
ResourceQuota in that namespace.
For example, if you assign specific namespaces to different teams, you
can set resource quotas on those namespaces to prevent one team from

> hogging all the resources in your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using all the resources in your cluster.
```

Author: Here hogging and using are not synonyms. You can “hog all the resources” whilst leaving too little for other teams; “using all the resources” implies that nobody else got any at all.

Maybe there's another phrasing that works better?

Reviewer: I think the word "all" also adds to that potential confusion. 

Hmm. Something like "avoid situations where one team uses too many resources in the cluster, leaving other teams with too little"? Could use some more massaging :P

  Normal  Pulled     41s   kubelet            Container image "saadali/simmemleak:latest" already present on machine
  Normal  Created    41s   kubelet            Created container simmemleak
  Normal  Started    40s   kubelet            Started container simmemleak
  Normal  Killing    32s   kubelet            Killing container with id ead3fb35-5cf5-44ed-9ae1-488115be66c6: Need to kill Pod
```

In the preceding example, the `Restart Count:  5` indicates that the `simmemleak`
container in the Pod was terminated and restarted five times (so far).
The `OOMKilled` reason shows that the container tried to use more memory than its limit.

Your next step might be to check the application code for a memory leak. If you
find that the application is behaving how you expect, consider setting a higher
memory limit (and possibly request) for that container.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

* Get hands-on experience [assigning Memory resources to containers and Pods](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-memory-resource/).
* Get hands-on experience [assigning CPU resources to containers and Pods](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-cpu-resource/).

> * Read how the API reference defines a [container](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#Container)

Reviewer 2: nit: Use consistent punctuation at end of sentence.
